.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxtd.1
.\"
.TH NXTD 8 "SEPTEMBER 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxtd \- start nxt demon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxtd [
.I options
.B ]
.I 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Start nxt demon for the "a NXt Toolkit" (aNXT) software.
.br
Currently, each usage of the aNXT software beside file converts 
and adminstration commands requires a running nxtd demon.
.br
When started in network mode, each computer on a network is able to 
control a NXT brick connected via USB or bluetooth to the computer running
nxtd.
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-p port"
Set the TCP port.
.br
The default port number is 13370.
.IP "-l logfile"
Set the log file.
.br
Messages about found NXT bricks and the transfer from/to a NXT bricks are
written to the log file. The default log file is /var/log/nxtd.log. If
the log file can not be opened, the log messages are written to the standard
output.
.IP "-P password"
Set a password. 
.br
This password is only usefull when connecting from a network,
cause this password is visible to local users via the 
.I ps
command.
.IP "-d"
Run as daemon.
.br
This is implemented via a call of daemon(0,0). See
.I "daemon(3)"
for more information.
.IP "-i pidfile"
Set pid file.
.br
The pid file stores the process number of the nxtd process as a string.
This is usefull for stopping/restarting the nxtd process.
.br
The default pid file is /var/run/nxtd.pid.
.IP "-N"
Use network mode.
.br
Enable the connect to network clients. The default is the local mode, which
disables the connect to network clients.
.SH CAVEATS
It is not possible to set a password for local users, 
cause the password is visible to local users via the
.I ps
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ps (1), 
.BR
daemon(3),
.BR
nxt_beep(1),
.BR
nxt_calibrate(1),
.BR
nxt_delflash(1),
.BR
nxt_download(1),
.BR
nxt_error(1),
.BR
nxt_getprog(1),
.BR
nxt_info(1),
.BR
nxt_list(1),
.BR
nxt_lsmod(1),
.BR
nxt_motor(1),
.BR
nxt_motor_playback(1),
.BR
nxt_motor_record(1),
.BR
nxt_motor_travel(1),
.BR
nxt_pilot(1),
.BR
nxt_pollcmd(1),
.BR
nxt_recv(1),
.BR
nxt_remove(1),
.BR
nxt_resetbt(1),
.BR
nxt_run(1),
.BR
nxt_scan(1),
.BR
nxt_send(1),
.BR
nxt_sensor(1),
.BR
nxt_sensorus(1),
.BR
nxt_server(1),
.BR
nxt_setbutton(1),
.BR
nxt_setname(1),
.BR
nxt_stop(1),
.BR
nxt_tacho(1),
.BR
nxt_turnoff(1),
.BR
nxt_up_run(1),
.BR
nxt_upload(1)



