.\" based on manpage of libgpg-error-config
.\" Copyright: 2003 - 2006 g10 Code GmbH
.\"   
.\" Copyright statement:
.\" 
.\"    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"    it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as 
.\"    published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 
.\"    of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"    GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public 
.\"    License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii anxt-config.1
.\"
.TH ANXT-CONFIG 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
anxt-config \- get information about the installed version of aNXT
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B anxt-config [\-\-prefix] [\-\-exec\-prefix] [\-\-version] [\-\-libs] [\-\-static-libs] [\-\-cflags]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fanxt-config\fP is a tool that is used to configure to determine
the compiler and linker flags that should be used to compile
and link programs that use \faNXT\fP. 
.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.l
\fIanxt-config\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B  \-\-version
Print the currently installed version of \faNXT\fP on the standard output.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-libs
Print the linker flags that are necessary to link a \fIaNXT\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-libs-static
Print the linker flags for static libraries that are necessary to link 
a \fIaNXT\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-cflags
Print the compiler flags that are necessary to compile a \fIaNXT\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-prefix
Print the base directory of \fIaNXT\fP files.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-exec\-prefix
Print the executable directory of \fIaNXT\fP files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
gcc -o foobar foobar.c `anxt-config --cflags --libs`

Commandline to compile a program with the aNXT library.
.SH AUTHOR
g10 Code GmbH
.\" man page author: g10 Code GmbH, J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3)

