.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_calibrate.1
.\"
.TH NXT_CALIBRATE 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_calibrate \-  calibrates a LEGO mindstorms NXT sensor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_calibrate [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
calibrates a LEGO mindstorms NXT sensor.
.br
The 
.I nxt_calibrate
program will ask you first to produce the lowest input and then to press enter
to continue. 
.br
In the second step it will ask you  to produce the highest input and then to 
press enter to continue.
.br
The result is stored on the NXT brick filesystem on files with the extension
.I .cal
.br
Currently implemented are the LEGO light and the LEGO sound sensor.
.br
The filename for the light sensor is 
.I Light Sensor.cal
.br
The filename for the sound sensor is 
.I Sound Sensor.cal
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-s sensor"
The 
.I sensor
values are: 1, 2, 3, 4. If the -s option is missing, but the -t option is
used, the value is depends on the type/sensorportnumber combinations, defined
by Lego itself.

.nf
        Type        Sensorport

        light      3
        sound      2
.fi
.IP "-t type"
The sensor type defines, how to interpret the values from a sensor.
.br
Valid sensor types for
.I nxt_calibrate
are:
.br
light
.br
sound
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_calibrate -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab -t light
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth, calibrates the lightsensor at port 2 and write the resulting
.I Light Sensor.cal
file to the NXT brick filesystem.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_list (1)
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

