.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_upload.1
.\"
.TH NXT_UPLOAD 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_upload \- upload a file to the LEGO mindstorms NXT brick
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_upload [
.I options
.B ]
input [output]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Upload a file from the host computer to the NXT brick.
.br
If the name of the outputfile on the NXT brick ( 
.I "output"
) is not given, the name of the inputfile on the hostcomputer (
.I "input"
) is used.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f"
Force overwriting of already existing files.
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-o writemode"
For 
.I writemode
use one of the following write modes:
.br
fragment
.br
linear
.br
append
.br
It is also possible to use "f" instead of "fragment", 
"l" instead of "linear" and "a" instead of "append".
.br
Acording to some information in the internet, user application programs, 
"try me programs", lego sound files and lego icon files have to be linear
files. All other files can be fragmented files.
.br
The use of the append flag will append the file data at the end of a already
existing file.
.br
The default 
.I writemode
is "linear".
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is cause by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_upload -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab test.rxe
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and upload the file test.rxe from host computer as to the NXT 
brick as a linear file test.rxe.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_up_run (1),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)
