.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_motor.1
.\"
.TH NXT_MOTOR 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_motor \- Control a LEGO mindstorms NXT motor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_motor [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Control a LEGO mindstorms NXT motor.
.br
When used without arguments, 
.I nxt_motor 
will run infinite with the lowest power.
It is possible to set the power, set a rotation limit, brake or block the motor 
with commandline arguments.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -b
Brake (block) motor.
.IP "-m motor"
Valid 
.I motor
values are: A, B, C, ABC for motors at the ports A, B or C or all ports (ABC). 
The default value is A.
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-p power"
The 
.I power
setting controls the power/speed of the motor. The default valid is 50, which
means, that the motor is barly moving.
.IP "-r rotation"
The 
.I rotation
setting limits the movement of the motor. If the tacho value of the motor ( see
.I nxt_tacho(1)
) reaches 
.I rotation
the motor is stopped (or depending on the options blocked).
.br
The default 
.I rotation
is 0, which means unlimited movement.
.IP -s
Stop (coast) motor. Same as -p 0
.IP -y
Synchronise motor with another motor.
.br
Be carefull when using motor synchronisation. 
.br
Useing motor synchronisation without a slowing external force on the motors
can easily result in a wild oscillating movement of the motors.
.IP -i
Idle motor
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_motor -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab -r 1000 -p 55
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and rotate motor A with power 55 (very weak/slow) till the tacho 
value reaches 1000.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_tacho (1),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

