.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_motor_travel.1
.\"
.TH NXT_MOTOR_TRAVEL 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_motor_travel \- Control/synchronise two LEGO mindstorms NXT motors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_motor_travel [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Control/synchronise LEGO mindstorms NXT motors.
.br
This is usefull when the two motors are used for mobile wheeldriven robots.
.br
When both motors run similar, the synchronisation will take effekt. 
In case one motor would be slowed down by a force, the second motor 
will move similar. This makes it more easy to keep direction, when
driving forward. 
.br
When synchronisation is in effect, the motors have deliver more power as 
without synchronisation. 
.br
There is also a 
.I turnratio
setting, to drive curves. If turnratio is not zero, there will be no
synchronisation effect, when one motor would be slowed down.
.br
Using nxt_travel is not exactly the same as using
.I nxt_motor
with the 
.I -y 
(synchronisation) option. 
.br
nxt_travel is similar to using
.I nxt_motor
with the
.I "-y -b"
(synchronisation and brake/block) options.
.br
When used without arguments, 
.I nxt_motor_travel 
will run infinite with a low power setting. 
It is possible to set the power, set a rotation limit, brake or block the motor 
with commandline arguments.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -b
Brake (block) motors.
.IP "-m motors"
Valid 
.I motors
values are: AB, AC, BC for motors at two of the ports A, B or C. 
The default value is BC.
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-p power"
The 
.I power
setting controls the power/speed of the motor. The default valid is 50, which
means, that the motor is barly moving in curves.
.IP "-r rotation"
The 
.I rotation
setting limits the movement of the motor. If the tacho value of the motor ( see
.I nxt_tacho(1)
) reaches 
.I rotation
the motor is stopped (or depending on the options blocked).
.br
The default 
.I rotation
is 0, which means unlimited movement.
.IP -s
Stop (coast) motor. Same as -p 0
.IT "-t turnratio"
Set turnratio. 
.br
The turnratio defines the curve radius. 
The default 0 means no curve. The -100/100 turnratio means, that one motor
is moving forward and the the other motor is moving backward in the same
way.
.IP -i
Idle motor
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_motor_travel -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab -p 55
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and rotate motors BC with power 55.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_motor(1),
.BR nxt_tacho (1),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

