.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_motor_playback.1
.\"
.TH NXT_MOTOR_PLAYBACK 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_motor_playback \- Move a NXT motor based on previous recorded values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_motor_playback [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Move a LEGO mindstorms NXT motor based on previous recorded values
from standard input. 
.br
The format of the input is line based.
The time in seconds till the start of the movement and the difference of the
tacho value till start is in each line.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-m motor"
Valid 
.I motor
values are: A, B, C, ABC for motors at the ports A, B or C or all ports (ABC). 
The default value is A.
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-p power"
The 
.I power
setting controls the power/speed of the motor. The default valid is 58, which
means, that the motor is moving rather slowly.
.IP -s
Stop (coast) motor after playback. 
.br
The default is to brake (block) the motor.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_motor_playback -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab -p 55 << EOT
.br
0.074935 -16
.br
0.096921 -20
.br
EOT
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and try to the rotate motor A with power 55 (very weak/slow) 
from the tacho value -16 to the tacho value -20 after 0.096921 seconds.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libnxt (3), 
.BR nxt_motor_record (1),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

