.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_lsmod.1
.\"
.TH NXT_LSMOD 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_lsmod \- list the modules of a LEGO mindstorms NXT brick
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_lsmod [
.I options
.B ]
.I wildcard
.SH DESCRIPTION
List the modules of a LEGO mindstorms NXT brick.
The only valid wildcard character is "*", it can be used to represent
the whole filename or extension, not parts of it.
.BR
The 
.I nxt_lsmod
command lists in one line: the name of the module, the module id and 
the IO-Map size.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_lsmod -s -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab "*.*"
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and print informations like the following:
.br
.TP 20
Comm.mod        
00050001        0       1896
.TP 20
Input.mod       
00030001        0       80
.TP 20
Button.mod      
00040001        0       36
.TP 20
Display.mod     
000a0001        0       1720
.TP 20
Loader.mod      
00090001        0       8
.TP 20
Low Speed.mod   
000b0001        0       167
.TP 20
Output.mod      
00020001        0       100
.TP 20
Sound.mod       
00080001        0       30
.TP 20
IOCtrl.mod      
00060001        0       2
.TP 20
Command.mod     
00010001        0       32820
.TP 20
Ui.mod          
000c0001        0       40
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libnxt (3), 
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)
