.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_screenshot.1
.\"
.TH NXT_SCREENSHOT 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_screenshot \- Take a picture of the display of a NXT brick
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_screenshot [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Take a picture of the display of a LEGO mindstorms NXT brick and store
it as a bitmap file on the host computer.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f format"
Select file format of the saved image.
.br
Valid fileformats are "png" and "jpeg".
The default fileformat is "png".
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-o output"
Name of the output file. The default name of the output file is
"screen.png" in case of the png file format and "screen.jpg" in
case of the jpeg file format.
.IP -t
Produce a picture with transparency. The jpeg file format do not 
support transparency, therefore this works only with the png file format.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_screenshot -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab -d 1000
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and screenshot 1 second with 440 Hertz on it.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_pilot (1),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

