.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_ricc.1
.\"
.TH NXT_RICC 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_ricc \- convert between bitmap and robot picture graphics files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_ricc [
.I options
.B ]
file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ric converter: Convert between bitmap images files (eg. jpeg or png format) 
and robot picture graphics files.
.br
Robot picture graphics files (extension ".ric") are usually used on the 
Lego Mindstorms NXT brick.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f outputformat"
Set output format.
.br
This option is only required for RIC to PNG/JPEG conversion.
.br
Valid values for
.I "outputformat"
are png, jpg and gif.
.IP "-i"
Invert image.
.br
Convert white pixels to black and vise versa.
.IP "-o outputfile"
Set the name of output file.
.br
The usage of this option is recommended, cause the default
.I outputfile
is made from name of the inputfile (including extension) and the extension
of the target format.
.IP "-q quality"
Set quality.
.br
This option is only usefull when saving to JPEG files.
.br
The default
.I "quality"
is -1, which means the best quality/memory ratio.
.\" .IP "-t"
.\" Use transparency instead of white (Works only for png or gif 
.\" output 
files)
.IP "-v"
Verbose mode
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_ricc test.png
.LP
Convert the inputfile 
.I test.png
to a robot picture graphics file named test.png.ric
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
