.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_tacho.1
.\"
.TH NXT_TACHO 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_tacho \- Get current rotation value of a LEGO mindstorms NXT motor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_tacho [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Get current rotation value ("tachometer count") of a LEGO mindstorms NXT 
motor.
.br
A LEGO mindstorms NXT motor is also a rotation senor. It can detect, how
much rotations/which angle the motor has turned, even when it was switched 
off.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-m motor"
Valid 
.I motor
values are: A, B, C for motors at the ports A, B or C. 
The default value is A.
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-r"
Reset tachometer count to 0 after reading.
.IP -v
Verbose mode.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_tacho -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab 
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and print out current tachmeter value of motor A.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

