.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_motor_record.1
.\"
.TH NXT_MOTOR_RECORD 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_motor_record \- Record the movement of a LEGO mindstorms NXT motor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_motor_record [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Record the movement of a LEGO mindstorms NXT motor and print it on standard
output. The format of the output is line based. In each line, the time in 
seconds till the start of recording and the change of the tacho value till
start is printed. The start and end of recording is signaled with a sound
similar to the output of
.I nxt_beep(1)
with option "-d 1".
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-m motor"
Valid 
.I motor
values are: A, B, C, ABC for motors at the ports A, B or C or all ports (ABC). 
The default value is A.
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-t duration"
The 
.I duration
value controls the time till the recording is stopped.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_motor_record -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab -t 0.15
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth, record the movement of motor A 0.15 seconds long and output 
something like the following:
.br
0.074935 -16
.br
0.096921 -20
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_tacho (1),
.BR nxt_beep (1),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

