.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_list.1
.\"
.TH NXT_LIST 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_list \- List files on a LEGO mindstorms NXT brick
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_list [
.I options
.B ]
.I wildcard
.SH DESCRIPTION
List files of the filesystem on a LEGO mindstorms NXT brick.
The only valid wildcard character is "*", it can be used to represent
the whole filename or extension, not parts of it.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a"
Show all files (also files starting with ".")
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-s"
Also show filesizes
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is cause by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_list -s -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab "*.*"
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and print informations like the following:
.br
.TP 20
runtest.rxe     
594
.TP 20
NVConfig.sys
1

.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)
