.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_sensorus.1
.\"
.TH NXT_SENSORUS 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_sensorus \- Get a value from the ultrasonic LEGO mindstorms NXT sensor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_sensorus [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Get a value from the ultrasonic digital LEGO mindstorms NXT sensor. 
.br
Most third party sensors (e.g. from HiTech or Mindsensor) are compatible
to the ultrasonic sensor. So the 
.I nxt_sensorus (1)
program can be used for them too. Some of the third party sensors can
be used with the
.I nxt_sensorus (1)
but do not deliver their full accuracy.
Some of the third party sensors are not compatible to LEGOs ultrasonic
sensor and there require special written functions similar to the nxt_us_* 
.I libnxt(3)
functions. 

The use of the shell command
.I nxt_sensorus (1)
itself is not very usefull over bluetooth, cause the initialisation of the 
bluetooth connection needs about 5 seconds in average.
.br
See the
.I nxt_server (1)
program and its examples for a better shell script solution.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.IP "-s sensor"
The 
.I sensor
values are: 1, 2, 3, 4.
.br
The default is the sensorport 4, the usual port (defined by Lego itself)
for the ultrasonic sensor.
.IP -r
Reset sensor after reading
.IP -v         
Verbose mode: print value and unit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_sensorus -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and get the value of the ultrasonic sensor at port 4.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libnxt (3), 
.BR nxt_sensor (1),
.BR nxt_server (1),
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

