.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_beep.1
.\"
.TH NXT_BEEP 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_beep \- Play sound on the LEGO mindstorms NXT brick
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_beep [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Play sound on the NXT brick. 
.I nxt_beep
will not wait, till the sound is played.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d duration"
Play the sound 
.I duration
ms long. The default duration is 200. 
.IP "-f frequency"
Use 
.I frequency
in Hertz to play the sound. The default frequency is 440.
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_beep -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab -d 1000
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and beep 1 second with 440 Hertz on it.
.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)

