.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_info.1
.\"
.TH NXT_INFO 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_info \- Show information about LEGO mindstorms NXT brick
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_info [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Show information about a LEGO mindstorms NXT brick.
The information includes the name of the brick, its battery status, the
sound volume setting, the bluetooth address, the bluetooth strength,
the amount of free flash, the firmware version and the protocol version.
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-n nxtname"
Use the NXT with name 
.I "nxtname" 
\&. The default is the first found brick. 
.sp
Additionally, the bluetooth address of the NXT brick can be used as
.I nxtname
\&. You can get the bluetooth address and name of your USB connected
NXT brick by using
.I nxt_info(1)
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_info -n 01:23:45:67:89:ab
.LP
Connect to the NXT brick with bluetooth address "01:23:45:67:89:ab" via 
bluetooth and print informations like the following:
.br
.TP 20
Name:               
nxt
.TP 20
Battery:
8294mV
.TP 20
Volume:
4
.TP 20
Bluetooth Address:  
01:23:45:67:89:ab
.TP 20
Bluetooth Strength: 
0%
.TP 20
Free flash:         
31657984 bytes
.TP 20
Firmware version:  
1.5
.TP 20
Protocol version:  
1.124

.SH CAVEATS
You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libanxt (3), 
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)
