.\" This manpage is free software; the Free Software Foundation
.\" gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.
.\" 
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii nxt_scan.1
.\"
.TH NXT_SCAN 1 "JUNE 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nxt_scan \- scan for NXT bricks connected via USB or paired bluetooth
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nxt_scan
.SH DESCRIPTION
Scan for Lego Mindstorms NXT bricks and print their name on standart output. 
The bricks can be either connected via USB or paired bluetooth. 
.SH AVAILABILITY 
Linux
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values shall be returned:
.TP 7
\ 0
Successful completion.
.TP 7
>0
A error occured. If the error is caused by a problem of the NXT brick itself, 
a matching errorstring to the exit value can be displayed with the 
.I nxt_error(1) 
command.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
nxt_scan
.LP
Scan the USB bus and the paired bluetooth connections for Lego Mindstorms
NXT devices. A typical output can be:

NXT
.br
NXT

.SH CAVEATS
If a brick is connected both via USB and bluetooth, the device is reported 
twice.

You can not get automatically access to the NXT brick.

Either you need access rights to the NXT usb device. Use root rights or see  
.I nxt_udev(8) 
for more information.

Or you need to pair the bluetooth devices of the host computer and the 
NXT brick. There are several programs to do this, one is 
"kbluetoothd".
.SH AUTHOR
Janosch Graef
.\" man page author: J. "MUFTI" Scheurich (IITS Universitaet Stuttgart)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libnxt (3), 
.BR nxt_error (1),
.BR nxt_udev (8),
.BR nxt_info (1)
